docs(secrets, release): document secret backend usage and link from env var / release notes (#25847)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2026-07-14-0-57-0-upgrade-guide.md

vector --config vector.yaml --dangerously-allow-env-var-interpolation
```

If you'd rather not carry the `--dangerously-allow-env-var-interpolation` flag, you can keep your existing

> `${VAR}`-based configs by interpolating them yourself with a pre-processing tool like [`envsubst`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/envsubst.1.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`${VAR}`-based configs by interpolating them yourself with a pre-processing tool such as [`envsubst`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/envsubst.1.html)
```

before handing the result to Vector. See the [environment variables reference](/docs/reference/environment_variables/#security-restrictions)
for more details.

> If you're using env var interpolation specifically to inject secrets (API keys, passwords, tokens), the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using environment variable interpolation specifically to inject secrets (API keys, passwords, tokens), the
```
Minor terminology consistency: "env var" isn't used elsewhere in this diff or on the target page.

vector --config vector.yaml --dangerously-allow-env-var-interpolation
```

If you'd rather not carry the `--dangerously-allow-env-var-interpolation` flag, you can keep your existing

> `${VAR}`-based configs by interpolating them yourself with a pre-processing tool such as [`envsubst`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/envsubst.1.html)

Author: Behavior is the same as in Vector

HTTP-family sinks have additional restrictions on URI and header templates to prevent request smuggling.

Templates are confined as soon as they have a literal prefix. For example, a `kafka` sink with `topic: "logs-{{ log_topic }}"`
is already confined by the `logs-` prefix and requires no changes. The confinement check will fail on fully dynamic templates
like `topic: "{{ log_topic }}"`. To fix or restore the previous behavior consult the "Action needed" sections below.

To verify your configuration after upgrading run `vector validate` as it builds each sink as part of validation.

> An unconfined template will make the command fail validation. Note that `vector validate --no-environment` skips

Reviewer 2: Add issue link and explain that this is due to a bug and not intended behavior.

HTTP-family sinks have additional restrictions on URI and header templates to prevent request smuggling.

Templates are confined as soon as they have a literal prefix. For example, a `kafka` sink with `topic: "logs-{{ log_topic }}"`
is already confined by the `logs-` prefix and requires no changes. The confinement check will fail on fully dynamic templates

> like `topic: "{{ log_topic }}"`. To fix or restore the previous behavior consult the "Action needed" sections below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like `topic: "{{ log_topic }}"`. To fix or restore the previous behavior, consult the "Action needed" sections below.
```

> To verify your configuration after upgrading run `vector validate` as it builds each sink as part of validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify your configuration after upgrading, run `vector validate` as it builds each sink as part of validation.
```

like `topic: "{{ log_topic }}"`. To fix or restore the previous behavior consult the "Action needed" sections below.

> To verify your configuration after upgrading run `vector validate` as it builds each sink as part of validation.

Reviewer 2: It would be more straightforward if we included an example. You can use this one: https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/discussions/25843#discussioncomment-17649997
